# Lung-Cancer-Detection
<br>
Conducted a research project comparing the accuracy of transfer learning models for the detection of lung cancer. In today's world, lung cancer ranks first in causing deaths, according to the WHO. Therefore it becomes mandatory to treat it as early as possible to reduce the mortality rate. Sometimes due to human error, the patient may suffer through the issue of false positives as well as false negatives. Hence, decided to implement a Lung cancer detection system to provide an accurate prediction.<br><br>
This research project compared five transfer learning models, namely MobileNet, VGG16, VGG19,  Dnesenet-201, and Resnet-101. For this project, IQ-OTH/NCCD lung cancer dataset was used, consisting of 3 types of categories; Benign tumor, Malignant tumor, and Normal case. Initially, the dataset was split into training, validation, and testing set, then performed data augmentation on the training set. The five transfer learning models mentioned above were used as feature extractors and stacked up a newly defined classifier with a fully connected dense layer and a softmax layer with three classes.<br><br>
After training and validating models for 200 epochs, each was analyzed based on the confusion matrix and classification reports; after that, selected Densenet-201 as a final model to deploy with a mean accuracy of 53% and F1-score 43%. The model was then deployed using the Flask framework. The research is carried out in a Google Colab Notebook with the runtime as GPU and using the Python programming language and its libraries. The TensorFlow, Keras, and sklearn libraries, which aid in model building, training, and evaluation, were used extensively throughout the code.

